## 0.10

## Changes in this Release

- Synthizer no longer deinitializes while another thread is calling into it and
  specifically chekcs for double init and a second init in the same process.
- Fix `syz_handleIncRef` and `syz_handleDecRef` to work concurrently while
  another thread is deinitializing the library.
- Make it possible to use `syz_handleIncRef` and `syz_handleDecRef` without the
  library being initialized.  Useful for Rust bindings.
- Add a script to vendor Synthizer, so that it can be embedded into bindings
  without cloning the entire repository.
- Make `syz_LibraryConfig.libsndfile_path` const-correct.
- Make `syz_initializeWithConfig` const-correct.
- Fix: Python bindings now again expose `get_channels` on `Buffer`.
- `synthizer.h` no longer makes any attempt to document.  The authoritative
  source of truth is this manual; trying to keep both in sync was only a recipe
  for disaster.

## Incompatibilities in this Release

NOTE: the Python bindings are unchanged.

- The following interfaces are now const-correct:
  - `syz_LibraryConfig.libsndfile_path`
  - `syz_initializeWithConfig`
  - `syz_globalEchoSetTaps`
  - `syz_routingConfigRoute`
  - `syz_globalEchoSetTaps`
- Widen the fields of `syz_RouteConfig` and `syz_EchoTapConfig`  to double.
- Also widen the `fade_out` parameter to `syz_routingRemoveRoute`.  This removes
  all unnecessary `float` from synthizer.h.
- All construcctors take a userdata and userdata free callback as parameters; if
  you don't need this functionality, set them to NULL.
- Renamed `syz_getUserdata` and `syz_setUserdata` to `syz_handleGetUserdata` and
  `syz_handleSetUserdata`.
