# Synthizer 0.8.x

## Highlights of this Release

This release is about performance, and undoing the Linux rollback in 0.7.7.  As of this release,
all code paths from the external interface don't block on the audio thread in the best case.  An internal refactor and introduction
of a new command architecture unify a bunch of ad-hoc interfaces for fast inter-thread synchronization.

Specifically:

- Property reads are now a couple of atomic operations as opposed to a semaphore and waiting on the next audio tick.
  Put another way, they're literally millions of times faster, and it's now possible to read things like `BufferGenerator.position` without issue.
- property writes are now roughly 5 times faster than they used to be
- object creation is essentially free
- adding and removing generators from sources doesn't block
- configuring routes for effects doesn't block

There is one exception to the lack of blocking: if code does around 10000 operations per audio tick,
Synthizer will have no choice but to block due to internal resource exhaustion. If this proves to be an issue in practice, it is trivial to raise this limit further.

## A Note on Breakage

The above changes were a complex refactor.  In order to make them with as little chaos as possible Synthizer has begun introducing some basic unit tests, but nonetheless it is nearly impossible
to make a release like this one without issues.  You are encouraged to report issues against [Synthizer's GitHub repository](https://github.com/synthizer/synthizer/issues).

## Compatibility

Synthizer introduces the following compatibility breakages in this release:

In order to get the above performance increases, it was necessary to remove the ability to read object properties.  This has the side effect of hiding details
of object lifetime, which Synthizer may rely on in future.

`FdnReverb.input_filter_enabled` and `FdnReverb.input_filter_cutoff` were removed.  Synthizer will be replacing
these with a  dedicated filter property type in the near future and opted to remove them now as to avoid an excessive number of releases that introduce backward-incompatible changes.

Property reads are now actually eventually consistent.  The manual preivously stated that it's possible for a read that comes after a write
to read a stale value, so code shouldn't have been relying on it.  In any case, Synthizer now uses this reservation for the above performance increases, and may break code
that incorrectly relied on the old behavior.

Synthizer has also changed the default panner strategy to `SYZ_PANNER_STRATEGY_STEREO`.  To re-enable HRTF, set this on a per-source basis.  The ability to set this default on a per-context basis will be introduced in the 0.8.x
series.  This change was made because HRTF is only useful for headphone users, and it is not possible
for Synthizer to reliably detect that case.  In general, stereo panning is safe on every
audio configuration including surround sound systems.

## Patch Notes

### 0.8.0

- Initial release
- Undo the rollbacks in 0.7.7 and reintroduce MSVC and Linux support.
- Internal fix for wire filters, which now don't play silence.
- A number of small fixes and slight quality improvements to reverb.
- All of the massive performance increases from above.


## 0.8.1

- Miniaudio was improperly configured to use a conservative profile, rather than a low latency profile.
  Caused extreme audio latency.

## 0.8.3

- Fix: FdnReverb.t60 = 0.0 no longer internally divides by 0.
- fix: BufferGenerator again uses seconds for positions.  This was refactored incorrectly during 0.8.0's major changes.
- Objects should now die faster when their handles are freed, due to holding
  only weak references internally where possible when dispatching commands to the audio thread.


## 0.8.4

- Contexts and all generators now support `SYZ_P_GAIN`.
- Contexts, sources, and generators now support play/pause via `syz_pause` and `syz_play`.
  - In Python, this is `src.pause()` and similar.
- Slight memory savings.
