# 0.9.x

This release primarily focuses on being the final major API breakage before 1.0,
supporting Mac, improving the story around thread safety, and closing the gaps
around loading audio from non-file sources.

It is anticipated that there will be no more major API breakage before 1.0, and
hopefully no more API breakage at all.  In some ways, this release is a 1.0 RC,
though there are yet a few features left before 1.0 can happen.

If you find this library useful, [I have a GitHub
Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/ahicks92).  This is by no means required.
That said, this release required buying a Mac, so I have now put money into
Synthizer in addition to time.

## Stability of this Release

This is a weekend project and this release contains a lot of manually tested new
features, so it will be astonishing if you don't find bugs.  I generally do a
good job fixing them within a week, so please [report them against the Synthizer
repository](https://github.com/synthizer/synthizer/issues).  There will likely
be a few point releases before all of the bugs iron themselves out.

Automated testing is on the wishlist, but is infeasible due to lack of time and
is generally a massive undertaking.

## New Features in this Release

### Mac and Arm Support

Synthizer now supports Os X, both the Python bindings and the C library.  Unlike
other platforms, you will need to install XCode for the Python bindings to work.

As a consequence, ARM is now also supported and testing is done locally on an M1
Mac.

Unfortunately, due to Apple and GitHub actions limitations, Synthizer is unable
to support older versions of Mac reliably.  Testing currently happens against
Big Sur locally, and CI builds against catalina.  In general Synthizer will make
an effort to support the latest major release of OS X.

### A New Manual

This manual has been almost entirely rewritten, and the concepts and Python
tutorial sections now contain a lot more content.  You can now find more
detailed information on common patterns, 3D audio, and more.  Additionally, many
sections have been split into more targeted and smaller sections, which should
make things easier to find.

If you're using the Python bindings, you probably still need to read the source
code, but there is now more than one tutorial.

### Support for Custom Streams and In-memory Assets

Synthizer now supports:

- [Loading from custom streams](../concepts/custom_streams.md).
- Loading buffers from in-memory encoded data via
  `syz_createBufferFromEncodedData`.
- Loading buffers from application-generated float arrays via
  `syz_createBufferFromFloatArray`.

### Libsndfile Support

Synthizer can now [load Libsndfile](../concepts/libsndfile.md).  This adds
support for all formats Libsndfile supports, most notably Ogg, and works with
all forms of getting data into Synthizer save custom streams that don't
implement seeking functionality.  See the linked section for more info.

Due to licensing incompatibilities, this can't be statically linked and you will
need to distribute the shared object alongside your app.

### Ability to Configure Objects to Play Until Finished

Synthizer now has a concept of [lingering](../concepts/lingering.md), which can
be used to configure Synthizer generators and sources to stick around until
they've finished playing rather than dying immediately on deletion.  This
replaces home-grown solutions using events with a built-in solution for
fire-and-forget situations where you simply want to play one sound and don't
want to have to track it yourself.

### Reference-counted Handles

For lower-level languages, Synthizer now supports reference counted handles.
This allows for implementing things like the C++ `shared_ptr` or Rust's `Arc`,
where objects may be being used by multiple threads and must not be deleted
until all threads are finished.

### Thread-safe Event Handling

As explained in [the new section on events](../concepts/events.md), Synthizer
events now take temporary references on the handles they refer to.  This allows
event handling loops to run concurrently with handle deletion without
invalidating handles out from under the event handler.  This increased lifetime
only extends until `syz_eventDeinit`, but it is possible to use
`syz_handleIncRef` to hold onto the handle for longer if desired.


### No Property Type Overloading

Synthizer properties are always only of one type by constant.  For example
`SYZ_P_POSITION` is always a d3.  This required renaming `SYZ_P_POSITION` on
generators to `SYZ_P_PLAYBACK_POSITION`.

### The Effects API Is No Longer Provisional

At this point, it's not going to change again, so we have removed the
provisional notices in this manual.

## Incompatibilities in this Release

- You now destroy handles with `syz_handleDecRef` because they're reference
  counted.
  - In Python, `.destroy` is now `.dec_ref`.  Python will likely take advantage
    of reference counting in future.
- `syz_echoSetTaps` is now `syz_globalEchoSetTaps`.
- All of the `SYZ_P_XXX` properties on the context for configuring defaults for
  the 3D environment have a default prefix, e.g.
  `SYZ_P_DEFAULT_PANNER_STRATEGY`.  This was done to make room for future
  extensions.
- All generators with a position now use `SYZ_P_PLAYBACK_POSITION`.
- Configuring logging and libsndfile etc. is now done through a struct passed to
  a new `syz_initializeWithConfig`.  All functions for configuring these values
  have been dropped.
- The union containing unused/empty event payloads has been dropped from
  `syz_Event` because they're unused/empty payloads.
  - To bindings developers: Synthizer currently doesn't contain unions anymore,
    but they'll come back in future.
- It is now necessary to call `syz_eventDeinit` on events when you're done with
  them.  Failure to do so will leak handles
